**[St. Alban]{.underline}**

by Liberty Martin

*I think he will carry this island home in his pocket, and give it to
his son for an apple.*

---*The Tempest,* William Shakespeare

*If water is the romantic metaphor that has irredeemably made its place
in \[the\] Caribbean and \[the\] African \[diaspora\]\... sand is the
less embraced referent that returns us to the body's messy realities.
Water washes, makes clean. Sand gets inside our bodies, our things...*

---"What the Sands Remember," Vanessa Agard-Jones

[*[Inspired by a true
story.]{.underline}*](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/05/style/coronavirus-honeymoon-stranded.html)

*The stunning Caribbean island of St. Alban bears a rich, multicultural
history. Located to the west of Jamaica and the south of the Cayman
islands, St. Alban was discovered by the Spanish in the early 16th
century and came under British rule after the 1670 Treaty of Madrid. The
then-reigning king of England, Charles II, later gifted the island to
his wife, Catherine of Braganza, because of its idyllic beauty. The
sands of the island's beaches are a unique pink colour that is shrouded
in mystery: According to historical accounts, the sand used to be white,
but scientists and historians alike are unsure of what would have
prompted this colour change.*

*St. Alban quickly became a treasured possession due to its high
production of sugar. Second only to the neighbouring island of Jamaica,
St. Alban produced the most of this "white gold" out of all the British
West Indies despite its tiny size. Now, you can taste the yield of the
land's delicious sugar cane at one of the country's prized rum
distilleries. Enjoy the local cuisine, music and sights as St. Alban
becomes your luxurious second home. Immerse yourself in pleasure and
never lift a finger. Welcome to paradise.*

\*

The day after the Royal Hummingbird Hotel closed its doors, the sands of
its private beach turned black. An inky, bottomless black, as if the
night sky had descended from above and settled on the shore to kiss the
sea. There was no incremental change, no prior sign of the oncoming
darkness; the staff and the last two remaining guests of the hotel fell
asleep to the rhythm of the Caribbean sea lapping against pink Albanese
sand. Then they woke up to find the beach eclipsed.

"Jesus." Constance surveyed the freshly black sand that stretched for
miles through a window. "It's a sign."

"Every likkle ting to you is sign," Ebony responded, transfixed by the
spectacle as well.

"Well how yuh explain it?"

"Mi nuh know---"

"Exactly. Sin is up God's nostril. Dat's why de whole world sick. It's
repentance." The two friends stood side by side and spoke without
looking at each other.

"Alrite, now. We will be fine---"

"De whole world lock off. When yuh see dat appen? Hmm? An we jus ere.
Stuck."

"Yeah." Ebony had little to say. "Yeah, we are."

Constance kissed her teeth. "Chuh. Mi cyaan badda wid dis."

She broke away from the pull of the blackened sand and wandered off to
start her day's work. Ebony remained at the window, hypnotized. The
beach was a shock to her as well, but something about the darkness
soothed her. Staring at the sand felt like the calm behind closed weary
eyelids. After some length of time, she left Constance's room and walked
to her own down the hallway to get dressed.

It was odd temporarily living at her workplace, even if it was
indulgent. The luxury of the king size room had become stale because she
knew how often the linens were actually washed and where the hidden
hairline cracks were. The mattress was better than the one at home,
though. To her surprise, her bed, which was abandoned in a mess from a
startled awakening caused by Constance, was neatly made. A small pouch
that was packed full and fastened shut with a piece of twine sat in the
middle of the bedspread, accompanied by a worn piece of string.

Ebony picked the pouch up to test its weight, stroking the coarse fabric
with her thumb. It felt like some kind of muslin, like gauze, and the
pouch itself wasn't heavier than a pebble. Beneath the woven layers of
fabric she could feel the stems and leaves of herbs, maybe some soil as
well. She knew better than to open it and instead held the little bag to
her nose and managed to pull a faint whiff of garlic. She couldn't
figure out exactly what it was, but she knew what to do. Ebony tied the
center of the string around the twine of the pouch, secured the
makeshift amulet around her neck with a tight knot, and pulled a pair of
scissors from the bedside table drawer to cut off the excess string. She
got dressed and tucked the pouch underneath her shirt. Confident that it
was unnoticeable after checking herself in the mirror, Ebony walked to
the grand staircase that connected the ground and first levels of the
hotel. The marble steps cascaded down and pooled onto the reception
floor.

The space and decoration of the Royal Hummingbird Hotel evoked each of
its five stars, boasting marble surfaces, sandalwood beams, and
flourishes of gold leaf trim. The walls, floors and linens tended to be
pristine white, accented with furnishings in the colours that you would
find in a tropical fruit basket: leafy, luscious greens, pomegranate
red, topaz orange, pineapple yellow. And, of course, that signature
sapphire and turquoise blue to remind you of the sea, which was only a
window's-view away. Every single room had a seaview, leaving the
southern floorplan of the hotel barren, lest you forget that you were
vacationing on an exotic island. The outside of the Royal Hummingbird
was designed to mimic a Spanish colonial estate, with wide swooping
archways and a fa√ßade painted the airy, cool colour of whipped butter.
Most things were imported to please the tastes of the hotel's clientele:
Turkish baths, tea from India, tiles from Greece, Egyptian cotton
towels, Italian art. Albanese culture was saved for food and music which
was tempered, again, for customer satisfaction. Behind the building was
an outdoor lounge area dotted with parasols that were thatched to match
the manicured lines of palm trees standing behind them. There were a
number of heated pools for those who were troubled by the depths of the
sea, each accompanied by a bar---sometimes floating, sometimes anchored
to the ground, all consistently well-stocked. A path laden with
blue-and-white mosaic tiles invited absent guests to the private beach.
The intensity of the black sand threw off the hotel's lethargic colour
scheme.

The entire building could accommodate about five hundred people, but for
the first time since its opening the hotel's rooms were empty. All
except for two guests. A husband and a wife, an English couple on their
anniversary. They could have left earlier, when the first wave of
cautious guests hopped on their flights, but surely the virus wasn't
that bad. The newspapers were being dramatic, and, anyway, they'd paid
for this all-inclusive. When borders started closing and travel bans
were enforced, they trusted in their British passports. Then, in what
felt like a recurring bad dream, the virus landed in St. Alban by way of
a bunch of Italian travellers. The situation became fraught. Most of the
other guests had secured travel arrangements as the pandemic shut down
the country, and by the time everyone was gone it was too late. A number
of logistical restrictions stranded them on the island at that point,
from cancelled indirect flights to closed airports to stubborn embassy
officials. It was all becoming a relentless, knotted nightmare when it
occurred to the husband: why leave paradise? He had a play to write, she
was in desperate need of a break. Why return to the mounting turmoil of
the real world? They would stay. And since they needed food, someone to
change the bedsheets, and amenities in working condition, the staff who
happened to be working that day stayed with them.

An entire fleet of staff for two people seemed wasteful, so the staff
didn't waste much time on the guests at all. In fact, Ebony couldn't
remember their names, and Lord knows nobody else did. You could find the
wife wandering around the premises looking for conversation from anyone
who bothered to spare her any. She wore that falsely polite smile that
the British middle class are very fond of. The husband, on the other
hand, was an enigma since he spent most of his day writing. He
occasionally hopped from room to room for a change of scenery. Absorbed
in his literary endeavours, he was more standoffish than his eager wife.
A few of the more pensive staff members wondered whether the guests were
concerned about the contempt radiating from the very people who served
each of their meals and cleaned their whereabouts. They concluded that
some people simply do not see anything or anyone beyond their peripheral
vision.

In the ample spare time they had on their hands, the staff gossiped with
friends, left instructions to children alone at home on how to prepare
dinner ("There's nuff rice inna di bottom drawer ah di freezer. Eehee,
yes, dat one deh suh"), checked in on elderly family members, and
pondered over what the hell happened to the sand. Ebony finished her
first day in isolation the same way she started it, with Constance. The
two met in Constance's room 124 to eat dinner together. Containers
filled with white rice and vegetables sat on a small table, steam
wafting gently above them, and something was heating up in the
microwave.

"What did you do with yourself today, madam?" Ebony asked as she sat
herself down.

"Nuttin much. Called Mummy, since she stuck inna de yard by herself now
dat mi deh ere." A beep sounded, and Constance checked the temperature
of the food. Deciding that it was not hot enough, she placed it back in
the microwave.

"Oh, how is she?"

Constance sighed dramatically. "She insist on going to church, but if
dis virus ketch her it will kill her."

"Listen, knowing how yuh madda stay, dis likkle covid ting nah go stress
her."

"You right, you right," Constance replied. "She seen bettah days but she
alrite. Inna di miggle ah smaddy else business, as usual, so she happy."

The microwave beeped again. Constance pulled out a plate of escovitch
fish that announced itself to the room with a plume of steam and the
fragrant smell of bell peppers. She dished out the fish, rice and
vegetables onto paper plates for the two of them and said a quick prayer
to herself after she sat down with Ebony.

"Can you pass me some salt?" Ebony asked when Constance finished saying
grace.

"De food doan even touch yuh lips yet."

"Nuh badda me, mi a big ooman, pass me de salt."

Constance flung a couple of salt packets towards Ebony's direction. "Yuh
stay there an mek high blood pressure badda you like it badda me," she
retorted to Ebony's laughter.

They chattered on about everything and nothing, paying no attention to
the time until Ebony realised it was past 1am and she better take
herself to bed. Alone in her grandiose room, she peeled off her uniform.
Since she didn't have the opportunity to pack sleeping clothes she had
to make do with a T-shirt with the hotel's logo on it. She decided to
watch the shore for a while before going to bed. The sea rumbled with a
low pur as moonlight gave shape to the waves. The moon, full to the brim
and heavy in the sky, also lit the figure of a man, someone who Ebony
didn't recognize. In the syrupy thickness of nightfall it was difficult
to distinguish him from the sand but there he was, standing peacefully.
Through the dark his yellowed eyes caught hers. She wasn't afraid or
concerned as to how he got there. He waved to her.

From the beach down below Judge watched Ebony nod at him, close the
curtains, and go to sleep.

\*

*The sun on your back. Sweat in your eyes. And a machete. In your hands,
blood, on your hands. The memory of your clandestine husband, the
absence of your mother. There is nothing left. Losing is the only other
option. Do you have siblings? Yes? How many? You all ask no questions,
because there is blood on their hands. There is so much blood,
everywhere, on the leaves, on the root, mixed with the putrid smell of
raw cane, sweetened by corpses. The stench of futile screams, the
indecipherable salt of seabreeze and sweat and blood, the fire in your
mouth, the heat of rage, the whirl of flames, driving you forward. All
worth it. The gleam of your machete in the sun and running wherever you
wish, all worth it. Yes, your body will swing, in time. With the others.
But now you will swing your machete to that ingrained rhythm with new
purpose. Left, right, left, right.*

*\**

"How long unnu tink dis ting will last?" Angela was a woman in her
forties who always looked prim and neat, with a little diamond crucifix
necklace and a fresh coat of red polish on dainty, sculpted nails. She
asked the question while those pretty ruby fingernails dived for another
salted cashew nut in the plastic bag that she was holding.

"Hmm." Ebony paused for a moment and reached for a cashew nut to help
her thoughts along, drumming the fingers of her free hand on the
reception desk. "Til de start ah summer. So long as they stop people
from farrin comin in."

"Dat nah appen. De economy wi dead widdout tourism," intervened Paul, a
technician who was in his mid-thirties, about ten years' Ebony and
Constance's senior. He had long dreadlocks that trailed down his back
and were often intricately braided to keep the hair off his face.

"People nah vacation during a pandemic," Constance said nonchalantly,
taking a small handful of nuts to eat out of her palm so that she
wouldn't have to keep digging into the bag.

"Den wah mek mi ere instead ah lying in bed inna mi yard?" Paul replied.
He fished out a cashew nut from Constance's hand and popped it in his
mouth before she could stop him. He laughed at her reaction.

"Yuh too badmind," Constance muttered to Paul's delight. She pulled out
her phone from her pocket. "Oh."

Ebony glanced at the list of missed calls on Constance's screen and
quipped, "Mi keep telling yuh fi tek yuh phone off 'Do not disturb.'
Nobody can reach you."

"Yeah, yeah." Constance dashed the remaining cashew nuts in her mouth,
crunched them down quickly, and went to a more secluded spot to talk.

"Dis one ere chat sense, doh," Angela resumed, pointing over at Paul.
"Wi cyaan close de borders."

Paul's answer hovered above Ebony's head as she half-listened to the
ongoing conversation. Since the hotel had closed she found it difficult
to concentrate. Her mind was somewhere else, sometime else, wandering in
between now and the past that was walking in front of her. They walked
slowly, with an assured ease. Their chins raised with disdain, their
bodies impenetrable, they made no rush to seep into the space that they
knew so well. They were watchful. Just like the night when she gazed
down on the beach, these unfamiliar old eyes found Ebony and looked at
her intently. They were sorrowful. From the whispers that she was trying
to ignore she expected to see faces of fury but they were woeful,
pitying. Why?

Constance broke into Ebony's peripheral vision. She walked towards her,
Angela and Paul as if she were adrift, her face vacant and her steps
faltering a little.

"Y'alrite?" Ebony asked. "Wah appen?"

"She's dead," Constance whispered. "My madda dead."

"What?" Ebony said.

Constance opened her mouth to speak and instead crumbled. She fell to
her knees before Ebony could catch her and then let out a horrible
sound, a guttural scream that flew up to the high arched ceiling and
cracked around its edges with a croak, a noise that could only resound
from the very pit of the belly. And once the crying started, she
couldn't stop. Constance's wails were interrupted only by choked, sharp
breaths, a strangled contraction before she gave birth to the next
terrible scream.

Ebony did not know what to do. She had begun to reach for Constance when
her cries sliced into her like a scythe; she had never heard such a
scream before, and could never have imagined that her friend could
produce such a painful sound. A few other staff members began to appear
to see what was happening only to become ensnared in the trance as well.
Then they heard another awful noise---

*BRNNG!*

The phone ring sounded metallic and brittle against the wet human
screams. Angela, who was closest to the phone, instinctively picked up
the receiver and slammed it back down immediately. The whack of the hard
plastic knocked everyone back into reality.

Ebony rushed over and tried hopelessly to get her friend to her feet.
Somebody ran to fetch Constance water. Ebony felt someone else's fingers
graze against hers trying to hoist Constance up---Paul's probably---but
she would not be moved. Through her own mounting panic Ebony tried to
find the words to soothe but she didn't know what to say, what could she
say, how could she find the tenderness needed to hold Constance when---

*BRNNG!*

Angela clambered for the handset. "We are not available at this time,"
she snapped and hung up as the husband on the other end tried to utter a
word. The phone rang again immediately but before Angela could reach for
it somebody else grabbed the receiver.

"Doan call back," Ebony hissed in a voice that did not need volume to be
heard.

She dropped the handset without caring where it landed and it hit the
ground with a smash. Small shards of white plastic clattered and span
outwards on the marble floor. With this surge of rage Ebony scooped up
her friend and ushered her to her room. As soon as the two disappeared
up the marble stairs the temperature rose, as if hell had opened up its
mouth, emptied out its devils and swallowed up the hotel whole. Paul,
Angela, and the remaining staff members of the Royal Hummingbird Hotel
were left numb. At some point the husband appeared, furious, yelling
about WiFi and customer service, and they stared at him through the
feverish haze with a look that conjured violence; a callousness that
bit, gouged and shoved the words back down the guest's throat, sending
him to whatever room he crawled out of.

A few hours later, Ebony emerged from Constance's room. The sun was
beginning to set and Constance was fast asleep. Ebony pulled out the
amulet from underneath her shirt and stared at its hidden contents. What
good did it do? What evil did it ward off? She felt like ripping the
pouch from her neck right there and then, but thought better of it.
Something was coming. Something had to be.

Stepping out into the reception felt like walking into a different
world. No one was in sight. Or earshot. Without the bustling hum of
other people Ebony felt as if she were moving in slow motion. Heat
pressed its full weight against any surface; metal, ceramic, wood,
flesh, it did not discriminate. Ebony didn't know why or where she was
walking to until she realised that her body was in search of food. She
was headed for the kitchenette in the staff lounge. Her mind lost in a
dense fog, she let her body's intuition guide her, a film of sweat
lining her skin as she began to move into the room. It was dark because
the main light wasn't on but someone had switched on a lamp nearby one
of the couches. They sat in the wake of the shadows. It was Paul,
deflated on a navy couch with a few more shirt buttons undone than
usual, fanning himself with a brochure. When he saw Ebony he stood up.
Without the need for words, he took her into his arms and she slumped
into his chest. She didn't have the energy to cry. After a while, they
sat together on the sofa in the murky dimness and heat and quiet.

"There was a church conference," Ebony finally said. "Dem seh de elders
who went are dropping like flies. Her madda died alone dis mornin."

Paul didn't respond. Suddenly Ebony felt a desperate need to fill the
silence.

"Wah yuh tink wi ah go do, when alla dis dying is ova?" she asked.

"Go back to work," Paul said. He wrung his hands, his eyes averted with
a blank stare.

\*

Judge took delight in his morning stroll across the black beach. Usually
he would wear his pair of ragged sandals but today he walked barefoot.
Judge watched his toes scrunch in the sand, his skin and the shore below
near indistinguishable, as if he were melting into the land. The sight
pleased him. He ran his fingers along the string around his neck and
toyed with the little muslin pouch that hung from it, comforted by its
soft mass. He caught the sight of a white woman not too far away.

"How do you, miss? Mornin!" Judge called. The wife met his gaze and
looked ecstatic to finally meet someone new. She waved enthusiastically
before walking over.

"Morning! I'm good, thank you," she beamed. "How are you?"

"Fine," Judge replied. "Just fine." They were about the same height,
although not the same age, as far as the wife could tell. She was
clearly in her late thirties and he seemed to have at least twenty years
on her given the ample grey throughout his beard and his bald head. But
he stood straight like a young man and his eyes, yellowed as they were,
were piercing. Unclouded by age, his irises were an intense obsidian
black; volcanic, glowing. He seemed unaffected by the heat, but still
the wife felt the need to exclaim, "It's hot today, isn't it?"

"Yes it is," Judge agreed. "Come sit, look at de waves. De seabreeze
might cool yuh dung." He settled on the sand and the wife joined him
without thinking since she had nothing better to do anyway. The sea
looked like a stained glass window set in motion, the indigo waves
sliding over each other as they glinted in the sun. Judge drank in every
drop of the view, offering the wife nothing but silence. She expected
him to lead a conversation as he had called her over. With this
uncomfortable absence of smalltalk, it dawned on the wife that she was
alone with an unknown man. She began to scheme an exit plan to dismiss
herself when Judge abruptly asked, "Yuh know de story ah dis islan yah
suh?"

The wife relaxed a little. He must be a staff member, of course, because
no one else would be allowed on the premises. "Um, I read a little about
the history in a brochure on the way here but I would love to hear from
a local!"

"Mmm, good." Judge smiled a smile of scattered white teeth. "Dis lan use
to be a lan ah slaves."

The wife flinched.

"Well, before dat it was Arawak lan," Judge continued. "Mi tink seh it
did name Colibrike. But backra, yuh people dem, did kill dem off an
bring in my people---"

"Now I wouldn't say that---"

"---an mek dem slave. An yuh people dem would work dem to de bone, kill
dem, an bring in more. In fact," Judge turned around and gestured to the
palatial expanse of the hotel behind him. "Dis yah hotel is built pon de
same lan of an old plantation call Sweetness and Somerset, two estates
dat did merge. A plantation call Sweetness, imagine dat."

He dug a crooked finger into the sand.

"It was one of de biggest plantations in alla St. Alban an one ah de
richest, until one day de slave dem decide fi rise up. Dem strategize an
talk to de Obeah ooman to find de perfect time fi strike an soon de
whole ah St. Alban was aflame. Cah yuh see dis islan ere? It likkle bit.
When one side ah de lan shake, yuh feel de riddim pon de odda side. So
de slave dem from all ova de place did feel de shake an pick up dem
machete an riot. Dem bun dung de cane field, tek over alla di building
dem, mash up di place an slit dem masta troats fi twelve days an twelve
nites. Odda uprisings did tek place before den but none ah dem like dis.
An it was de last. Dem bun dung Sweetness to de grung an when de backra
dem tek back control, dem hung alla de slave dem from dis ere
plantation.

"Now, dem seh dat de sand use to be bright white like pearl, gleamin
inna de sunshine. But after de execution it tun red. Red, red, red, like
de sand soak up alla de blood ah de slave dem, even doh dem was kill far
from de shore. As time pass it tun pink. Mi tink seh de land did reclaim
de blood, cah dem dash weh de body dem ah de rioters inna de sea. Dem
nuh even bury dem, or bun dem up. Dem dash dem weh like seh dem rubbish.

"Now de sand black. Mi wonder wah dat mean," he concluded. The statement
seemed like a personal musing, but he looked directly at the woman,
pointing his words at her like a question.

> "Do you think it's a bad omen?" she asked.
>
> "Fi who?"
>
> "Oh- um, I don't know. Everyone I suppose."
>
> "Hmm." He paused, and did not offer a response. "Let me leave you,
> miss, mi tek up

enuff ah yuh time already."

"Oh." The wife did little to hide her relief. She clambered onto her
feet. "It was... so nice to meet you."

"Likewise. Walk good," Judge said, and he flashed his checkerboard grin
again as he watched her leave with haste, a white speck scampering
through the solid shadow of the beach.

\*

There was something about the pandemic, the claustrophobic restlessness
of being trapped in one building, the *way* that she screamed, that made
Constance's grief contagious. The staff of the Royal Hummingbird were
suspended in a catatonic daze as they drifted from one meaningless task
to the next. Every news report was the same thing, every phone ring
carried the potential burden of a loved one's death. The heat continued
to swelter. Ebony sat with Paul at the reception desk scrolling
aimlessly through her phone while he busied himself with repairing a
computer. Two desktop fans blared at both of them. They heard the
automatic door that led out to the back patio slide open and shut and
the wife shuffled in. Grains of black sand were still clinging to her
feet and legs.

"Can I ask you a question?" she said, her voice tinged with an odd
urgency.

"Sure," replied Paul, half-listening.

"So a colleague of yours, I think he must have been the groundskeeper,
met me on the beach and told me that... that the land this hotel is
built on used to be a..." She struggled to find the words. "\...A slave
plantation," the wife blubbered, eyes wide. "Is that true?"

"Um, I've never heard that before," Paul said slowly. "But probably.
That doesn't surprise me."

"Oh, but that's *horrible*," the wife exclaimed. "How could that be
allowed to happen?"

"Yes, I suppose it is horrible." Paul couldn't fathom what else this
woman wanted from him. If the lurid sound of Constance crying wasn't
circling around Ebony's mind, she would have chuckled.

"Yes. Yes, it is," the wife replied. Upon realising that she wasn't
going to receive much more of a response, the wife mumbled what felt
like an obligatory goodbye and scurried off. Ebony waited until the
guest was out of earshot to speak.

"She telling de truth, yuh know. Bout de plantation."

"How yuh know?"

"I- I doan remember. But she right."

Paul looked at her quizzically, but then decided to change the subject.
"How's Constance?" he asked.

"Honestly? Mi nuh know. But how good can she be?" Ebony responded.
Constance had not left her room since Ebony took her there after she
heard the news. In fact, nobody had actually seen Constance's face for
about two days, not even Angela and the few kitchen staff members who
took turns to leave freshly-cooked meals outside of her room. Ebony
knocked on her door a few times a day to see if she was alright, but
every time she offered her company Constance rejected it with a dull
murmur. Ebony decided that while she would respect Constance's desire to
be alone for now, sooner rather than later she'd have to go into her
room herself.

"She should go home," said Paul.

"I wish seh she could, but it nuh safe," Ebony replied. "An she could
ketch it while traveling there."

There was not much else to be said. The two tapped their fingers on the
desk or fiddled with a loose string on their uniforms to fill the
awkward lull of the conversation.

"Mek me go an check up pon her," Ebony said after a while, and grabbed a
handheld fan before walking up the flight of stairs to Constance's room.
Fanning herself vigorously with one hand, she rapped her knuckles on the
door.

"Constance?" she called. No answer. She knocked again.

"Constance? Is me, Ebony." Only silence in response.

"Okay, mi coming in fi see if yuh alrite," she said, fishing her master
key out of her pocket and opening the door.

The room was a state. Clothes were strewn across the floor, the bed was
a mess, dirty tupperware was left on random surfaces. Constance usually
accentuated every inch of her 5'9" stance, her shoulders rolled back
with impeccable posture, but here she was curled up in a ball, staring
outside through a crack between the curtains. The floor-to-ceiling
windows that were designed to lavish the room with light were covered
save for this little slither of the outside world. The air was thick and
heavy but the room was surprisingly cool compared to everywhere else, a
refuge from the strange fever. One side of Constance's head was plaited
into old canerows and the other half bloomed into a petite, wiry afro,
as if she planned to take her hair out to wash it but gave up midway
through the task. Constance didn't stir once at Ebony's entrance.

"Mi coming back," Ebony said. She ran into the heat of her room to scoop
up bottles of complimentary lavender oil, bath soak, body butter and
epsom salt from the closet, and grabbed a handful of her own haircare
supplies. Arms full, she returned to Constance's room, dumped everything
on the bed except for the salt, oil and bath soak, and then ran a hot
bath. Ebony interwove her fingers with Constance's, stood her up, and
guided her to the tub. While Constance undressed and soaked, Ebony
tidied her room, changed her bedsheets, and opened up the curtains and
windows to let in some light and air.

Ebony walked into the ensuite bathroom to find Constance's back to her,
knees drawn and cocooned in a womb of silence and her swirling thoughts.
Ebony put her hand lightly on Constance's shoulder to let her know that
she was now in the room and finished unbraiding her hair, saturating it
with conditioner afterwards and gently separating the little curls that
coiled unto themselves. She took the shower head and began to wash
Constance's hair, carefully massaging her scalp with shampoo and coaxing
the suds throughout her curls. When Ebony heard the sound of stifled
tears she wordlessly left the room, returned with a box of tissues, put
them on the edge of the tub, and continued back to work. Hair rinsed and
clean, she wrapped her friend in a towel, handed her the body butter and
told her that she'd wait outside to canerow her hair. As Constance sat
in between Ebony's legs in that sacrosanct position that all Black women
know, the only sound shared between the two friends was the nostalgic,
rhythmic click-clack of Ebony's fingernails knocking against each other
as she braided, until Constance spoke for the first time that day: "Yuh
can talk to her?"

Ebony froze, half of her fingers suspended in the air and the others
buried in the thick, black molasses of Constance's hair.

> "Yuh know mi doan like fi interfere wid ting like dat."
>
> "How else mi can see my madda?"
>
> "De dead should be lef alone."

Constance pulled away from Ebony's grip and turned to face her. "Listen,
mi know seh yuh nuh like fi talk bout it but mi wouldn't even bring it
up if I wasn't desperate."

Ebony suddenly became aware of the tension in her body and exhaled
haltingly, casting her mind back to her mother's house, deep in the
countryside, when she was five years old. She was playing with her
cousins or something, she couldn't remember, but she did remember the
sinking panic of fear when she realised that she had strayed too far
from the others and was lost. Hopelessly lost, more than her little five
year mind could comprehend, because for some reason the more she
retraced her steps the taller the trees loomed, and the more that time
unravelled, and the more the overwhelming loneliness felt dizzying, and
soon she found herself sat in the dirt, bawling, as if her cries could
keep her company.

Ebony didn't know how long she was in that state when an older man
tapped her on the shoulder and offered to guide her home. She assumed at
first that he was her Uncle Benny, her mother's brother, because he
looked just like him. Her mother must have sent him to find her. Yet, as
the man told her funny stories to cheer her up, she began to realise
that the cadence of his voice was more aged than Uncle Benny's, and his
low chuckle had a distinctly hoarse rasp to it. Still, something about
him felt familiar and safe, and she finally started to recognize her
surroundings and knew that her mother's yard was nearby. In about
fifteen minutes or so she arrived home safely and walked through the
wooden gate of the porch, hand in hand with the mystery man. But all her
family saw was their little girl with a calm, tearstained face, her hand
aloft, holding onto nothing and chatting to thin air.

When Ebony described the man as best as she could---the timbre of his
voice, his tall height, the stories he told her, how he reminded her of
her Uncle Benny---her mother told her that it was her great-grandfather
who shepherded her home. He had died eleven years before Ebony was born.
Ebony's mother explained gently that some women in their family had a
gift, the ability to see where this world merged with the next one.
There was no telling who would receive the gift or when it would
surface, but Ebony was the latest in a long line of women who could
perceive the presence of ghosts and communicate with them on the behalf
of others.

Ever since, Ebony could see the dead walking about alongside the living
and learned to distinguish which was which. Usually the dead minded
their business; a few were friendly, some were scary, mean-looking. The
potentially malevolent ones didn't disturb her that much though---it was
when she got older and began to recognize people she knew that Ebony
became uncomfortable. Her mother, an Obeah woman, tried to teach her the
ways of necromancy and other practices, but Ebony resisted. As much as
she loved her mother, she saw how the stigma of Obeah clung to her like
tar. She wanted no part of it. The voices of duppies were enough, she
didn't need to worry about the whispers of judgemental strangers, or
even the law. Ebony had grown up watching people sneak into her living
room for her mother's remedies, spells and pouches to be worn around the
neck, only to see those same repeat customers pass her and her mother in
the street as if *they* were phantoms. So Ebony learnt to push the dead
to the side, experiencing ghosts like how everyone else does: the figure
moving out of the corner of your eye, or the sound of your mother
calling your name but you realise that you're mistaken. But, sometimes,
the duppies were persistent.

> "Spirits are walking," Ebony said eventually, turning Constance back
> around to resume

canerowing her hair.

> "Is dat why de sand black?"
>
> "Mi doan know fi sure but spirits are walking. Mi neva did see so many
> at once, an dem

nah gweh."

> "Is my madda there?"
>
> Ebony sighed.
>
> "Mi feel like she would come ere to find me. To say goodbye,"
> Constance said softly. Ebony had

never seen her friend, who was quick-witted and direct and had a laugh
that could seize a room, look so much like a child.

"Okay," Ebony relented, because she knew that Constance's intuition had
not failed her. She lightly drummed her index and middle finger on the
pouch still nestled on her chest, steeling herself to be the instrument
of such a painfully intimate moment. "But jus dis once. Please doan ask
me fi do dis again."

\*

The only thing that encouraged the wife to get up and move was boredom.
There was only so much you could do in a vacant hotel, no matter how big
and luxurious it is. She yearned to have conversation with anyone other
than her husband, but the staff wouldn't speak to her beyond
surface-level niceties. All the corridors looked the same after a while.
The WiFi was unreliable. After wandering across the black beach and
sunbathing for the umpteenth time, the guest trudged back to her room,
and to her delight she heard a maid singing from the bathroom. It was
Angela. Her voice was sweet, a light soprano that glided along the
notes.

*"Goodbye burdens, I sing no longer with you\--"*

Another voice, a female voice that the guest didn't recognize, joined
Angela in harmony. The new voice, warm and mellow as it sang the tune a
third higher, chimed alongside Angela's like two steelpan drums playing
together.

*"\--goodbye pleasures of sin\--"*

And then a male voice, a tenor this time, rounded out the sound with a
final lower harmony that made the song feel soothing as well as bright.

> *"\--I sing no longer with you,*
>
> *I made up my mind to go God's way the rest of my life,*
>
> *I made up my mind to go God's way the rest of my life."*

All three voices subsided with a delicate vibrato and Angela appeared
out of the ensuite wheeling her caddy of supplies.

"That was so lovely!" The wife clapped with enthusiasm. Angela was at
first startled and then uncomfortable at the realisation that her little
moment to herself wasn't as private as she had thought, but the guest
didn't seem to notice.

"Where are the others? Are they still in there?" the guest asked, trying
to peer inside of the bathroom.

"What others?" Angela said.

"The others. The other people singing with you. They made such a pretty
harmony," the guest beamed.

"No, miss." Angela furrowed her brow. "There was nobody in here but me.
I don't know what you are talking about."

"Oh." The guest's face flushed red, which amused Angela to see such a
stark change of colour in someone's face. She took that as her
opportunity to exit.

"Never mind. Have a good evening, miss." Angela rolled her caddy out of
the room, noiselessly shutting the door behind her.

The wife's face slowly returned to its natural colour as she tried to
figure out what had just happened, but then she decided that the heat
must be getting to her. She had survived this small embarrassment and
she would forget whatever she heard, if she did hear it. She rolled over
the bed to reach for the bottle of water that Angela had placed neatly
on the bedside table. She took a swig. The wife closed her eyes,
debilitated by the uncompromising Albanese sun, and went to sleep.

Her dead body looked rather awkward hanging from the bamboo ceiling fan,
like a Christmas bauble too heavy for its branch on the tree. She was
stripped of her clothes, which sat neatly folded on a bare pillow,
except for her knickers. Her bare white breasts looked almost comical
against her tanned and sunburnt skin. The new necklace that adorned her
neck was made of pillow cases tied together. Although she looked flimsy
and deflated, she also looked like she was in danger of pulling down the
entire fan. There would have been a scramble to get her down and
resuscitate her, but anyone could tell by her purplish-blue face that it
was far too late. And so the staff of the Royal Hummingbird Hotel looked
on silently, trapped in a moment of unison, as the husband bellowed and
screamed. Ebony couldn't stop staring at the wife's feet, her toenails
painted a delicate seashell pink, slowly, ever so slowly, swinging left,
right, left, right.

\*

*The sun on your back---*Welcome to the island of St. Alban.
Paradise---*Sweat in your eyes---*To the people in a small
place[^1]---*And a machete---*the division of Time into the Past*---In
your hands---*the Present and the Future*---blood, on your hands*---does
not exist---*The memory of your clandestine husband---*Goodbye
burdens---*the absence of your mother---*I sing no longer with
you---*There is nothing left---*goodbye pleasures of sin*---Losing is
the only other option---*There must have been some good people among
you, but they stayed home---*The stench of futile screams*---And that is
the point---*sweetened by corpses*---They stayed home---*the fire in
your mouth, the heat of rage---*red. Red, red, red---*the whirl of
flames, driving you forward---*like de sand soak up alla de blood ah de
slave dem---*all worth it---*I admit---*the gleam of your machete in the
sun, all worth it---*I am sickened at the purchase of slaves---*Do you
have siblings?*---but I must be mumm---*Yes? How many?*---for how could
we do without sugar or rum?[^2]---*You all ask no questions, because
there is blood on their hands---*there is no dirt for these
bodies*---There is so much blood, everywhere---*no earth---*on the
leaves, on the root*---only water*---the indecipherable salt of
seabreeze and sweat and blood*---Sometimes the beauty of it seems as if
it were stage sets for a play---*and running wherever you wish*---for no
real sunset could look like that---*Yes, your body will swing, in
time---*no real seawater*---With the others---*could strike that many
shades of blue---*But now you will swing your machete---*The last shall
be first---*to that ingrained rhythm*---and the first last---*with new
purpose*---awaits. Enjoy your stay---*Left, right, left, right.*

\*

He looked like how nails down a chalkboard sound. That's the only way
Ebony could describe the husband's face as he wandered from hallway to
hallway like duppy. She almost felt sorry for him. Almost. There were
phone calls to be made: to his wife's family and friends, to his own, to
her workplace, to their life insurance providers, to a coroner to figure
out how they were going to ship the body back home. The pandemic only
made the latter more complicated, of course. He didn't leave the hotel.
That thought never crossed his mind. Ebony wondered why the embassy did
not receive a call about the trouble in paradise, but she didn't bother
to make the suggestion. The staff were left to clean up after the
husband as he grieved through temperamental mood swings, and they called
their loved ones on their breaks to check if they were safe and to
puzzle over the wife's peculiar suicide.

Maybe it was money problems. Or marital issues, the staff barely saw the
couple together since the husband was always holed away writing that
play of his. Did he do it? Why else would she be naked? No, unnu saw how
he cried, no man could fake that. Perhaps she felt like the world was
ending and she could not stand facing the rapture in confinement. They
asked Angela what she thought had happened since she was the last person
to see her alive. Angela had no clue, although she did recall the wife
hearing things that weren't there. It must have been delusion, with the
fatal combination of loneliness. And the heat. The heat was still
unbearable, and you know backra cyaan tek no heat. Ebony did not partake
in all the questioning, keeping her amulet safely tucked away against
the warmth of her chest.

With his lonely wife no longer sleeping beside him, the husband suddenly
realized that he was in a strange place, with strangers. He had not
watched any news for days---why would he, when the world was stagnant
and he needed to focus on his writing. But now he was clueless about
what was going on outside of this godforsaken hotel and he couldn't
bring himself to read or watch anything as a distraction. And he
couldn't sleep. The liquor in his mini-fridge didn't drag him into
slumber but instead left him cumbersome and groggy. He stopped drinking
when all the bottles were empty. Restless and struggling to find
something, anything, to do, he stumbled outside of his deluxe suite.
Sometimes his mouth let out a loud, ugly wail after his shoulder or a
stray limb collided into a wall, piercing the silence that swaddled the
sleeping hotel staff.

The heat mocked him, forced sweat out of his pores, smothered his
breathing. He desperately needed respite. Outside offered no
consolation. The only difference between the vicious sun and the waning
moon was that the latter did not have the power to burn him. The
temperature of the night felt just as scornful as the day because the
husband's stomach was full on a unique brew of liquors. He staggered
through the lounge chairs and parasols, pulled by the ebb of the sea, to
its somber song, to the charcoal sand, when somebody asked from the bar,
"Yuh waan sumting?"

The husband swung round, snatched by the voice.

"Usually mi nuh advise fi drink weh yuh sorrows," Judge said, his
attention divided between his guest and the array of alcohol before him
as he ran his index finger along bottlenecks. His long fingernail
clinked against the glass. "But yuh case is special."

The husband pulled up a chair. "I can't believe she's gone," he said in
a pitiful mumble. "She's gone."

"Hmm," Judge murmured, still making his decision. Then he found it. A
mahogany-coloured bottle of Sweetness & Somerset 21 Year Old Rum; the
dark teal of the label was so rich that it almost looked like velvet. A
brown-skin woman with full red lips and a white headwrap smiled coyly
underneath swirling gold writing. "Perhaps mi can cheer yuh up."

Judge poured the rum into a crystal tumbler and pushed it towards the
husband, who lifted his head from under folded arms.

"Yuh know de story ah dis islan?" Judge asked, his voice mellow and deep
like the aroma of the rum, sweet like the juice of raw sugar cane.

\*

"Did he really---"

"Yes, man."

"Faada God in Heaven. Wah appen?"

"He broke into de bar, got drunk, an end up inna de pool."

"Broke in?"

"Muss ave. Nobody serving at de bar. Muss ave finish off de alcohol in
his room."

"Lass nite?"

"Mm-hmm, early early mornin. Dem find him naked as de day him was born
inna de pool round 6 o' clock. Backside out to de breeze. Sad."

"Lawd... well him wid his ooman now. Dem ave pickney?"

"Not dat mi know of, no... If dem did leave dis neva would ave appen."

"Paul!"

"What? Is true. Dem should ave lef long time."

Angela stopped listening. Death seemed to be climbing up and down the
walls of this sorry place and she did not want it to crawl onto her,
especially if she might carry it home. They could go home now. After the
second suicide within forty-eight hours at the Royal Hummingbird Hotel,
the staff were released. They would not have been able to tell you how
long they spent confined to the hotel's twenty acres; someone could
count the days and tell you that they amounted to twelve, but time had
melted out of its rigid shape and into something completely new
altogether. At first minutes dangled in the air tauntingly, but after
the wife had died the hours became slippery, and all of a sudden both
guests were chilled in a crowded morgue and the staff were being sent
off home with haste. The dual tragedy would have been a scandal if the
country's press and already dwindling emergency services weren't
strangled by the virus. The owner of the hotel---some Frenchman in
cahoots with a Chinese proprietor who bought the hotel from an
Englishman through a Swiss bank---scrambled to bury the news
internationally and appease the British authorities. The deaths were
taken at face value because they were buried amongst the commotion of
the pandemic.

The spirits stopped walking, which eased Ebony. She did not know what to
make of the guests' fate or what emotion should fill her lack of
empathy. The pink dead flesh of the wife's feet swaying to and fro
stayed with her but the image didn't move her to any particular feeling,
and she couldn't decide whether this apathy was concerning or not. The
deceased---dressed up in a coffin or strolling besides her---always
provoked a reaction from Ebony, whether it be a chill or a sense of
safety, sadness or fear, confusion or recognition, but for the guests
she felt nothing. At least that is what she told herself. Because deep
down she knew that seeing the wife strung up had sent a completely
different emotion through her body: relief. And that sly smile of
comeuppance that Ebony struggled to hide at the sight of a fresh corpse
troubled her a little, so she opted to feel nothing. Her main concern,
anyway, was Constance, who would stay with her during the preparations
of her mother's funeral.

Before leaving, Ebony walked past the crime scene to go to the shore.
The temperature had finally dropped back to normal, which Ebony was
thankful for because she wondered whether the black sand would cling
onto the heat of sunlight. When she took her shoes off it occurred to
her that although she had spent a great deal of time admiring the
blackened beach she hadn't touched it at all.

Amulet in hand, she wondered what to do with it, where it's second life
should be. She contemplated giving the necklace to the sea but that felt
like relegating it to litter. No, the sea is full enough as it is,
carrying salt for wounds, voyages, forgotten things, life, and
cemeteries of sediment. The ocean, despite its omniscient expanse, can
only hold so much. Instead of handing the sea another weight to sink or
steer elsewhere, Ebony kneeled down in the sand and began to dig a small
hole, delving into the eroded memories of cliffs and shorelines and
volcanoes from a time beyond hers. She assumed that disturbing the black
sand would reveal its usual pink colour underneath, so she was surprised
at how deep the black went, how remarkably opaque it became the further
it settled away from the sunlight. She dropped the amulet into that
homespun darkness and returned the pile of sand sitting beside her to
its former place, patting it smooth.

Ebony's favourite part of childhood trips to the beach was right at the
end; the small baptism of washing off stubborn grains of sand from her
hands to reveal a smooth new layer of skin. Out of habit she resumed
this nostalgic ritual, wading a little into the sea to offer her palms
and fingers to the waves. Looking up, she saw a figure in the distance.
She straightened her back and shielded the sun from her eyes. Intuition
told her that it was the man from the beach on the first day of this
nightmare. He was shouting something that was incomprehensible because
of the distance. She gave up trying to make out his words but waved at
him to show acknowledgement and that seemed to satisfy him. He faded
into the ephemera of the seafoam.

Ebony took a moment to be still and then turned around to see that the
sand of the Royal Hummingbird's private beach was pink like little
spheres of rose quartz, gleaming in the sunshine.

**[Appendix]{.underline}**
==========================

![](media/image1.jpg){width="3.512746062992126in"
height="5.901042213473316in"}

French illustration of Tacky's Rebellion, Jamaica (*Mapping Marronage*).

The caption reads: *Soul√®vement des negres √† la Jama√Øque. en 1759.*

The following lines are from *A Small Place* by Jamaica Kincaid (1988):

-   "There must have been some good people among you, but they stayed
    > home. And that is the point\... They stayed home." (35)

-   "To the people in a small place, the division of Time into the Past,
    > the Present, and the Future does not exist." (54)

-   "Sometimes the beauty of it seems as if it were stage sets for a
    > play, for no real sunset could look like that; no real seawater
    > could strike that many shades of blue." (77)

The following lines are from *Pity for Poor Africans* by William Cowper
(1788) (Ullathorne):

-   "I admit, I am sickened at the purchase of slaves/but I must be
    > mumm/for how could we do without sugar or rum?"

**[Bibliography/Credits]{.underline}**

Agard-Jones, Vanessa. "What the Sands Remember." *GLQ: A Journal of
Lesbian and Gay*

*Studies* 18, no. 2 (2012): 325--46.

Kincaid, Jamaica. *A Small Place*. First Farrar, Straus and Giroux
paperback edition. New York:

Farrar, Straus, Giroux, 2000.

Shakespeare, William, and Edmund Dulac. *Shakespeare's Comedy of The
Tempest*, 2014.

[[http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/47518]{.underline}](http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/47518).

Ullathorne, Graham. "How Could We Do Without Sugar and Rum?" Accessed
January 30, 2021.

[[https://archives.history.ac.uk/history-in-focus/Slavery/articles/ullathorne.html]{.underline}](https://archives.history.ac.uk/history-in-focus/Slavery/articles/ullathorne.html).

Zweig, David. "How The Coronavirus Stranded This Couple in the Maldives
- The New York

Times." Accessed April 13, 2021.

[[https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/05/style/coronavirus-honeymoon-stranded.html]{.underline}](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/04/05/style/coronavirus-honeymoon-stranded.html).

**[About]{.underline}**

Liberty Martin is a writer and aspiring broadcaster from the London
borough of Croydon. Specifically, she wants you to know that she was
born and raised in Thornton Heath. She is in the Columbia University
Class of 2021 and graduated magna cum laude with a B.A. in comparative
literature and a concentration in Latin American and Caribbean studies.
She received departmental honors from the Institute of Comparative
Literature and Societies for her short story "St. Alban," which she
submitted as her undergraduate thesis alongside a critical afterword.
She wants to publish "St. Alban" and is in the process of extending it
into a novel.

Liberty seeks to center the African diaspora in her projects, such as the podcast that she co-hosts, *Lose Your Sister*, and her WBAR radio show, *HOMESICK*, which explored Black British music. She is an editorial assistant for the journal *Small Axe*, an administrative director and production assistant for the podcast *Writing Home*, and was previously a Writing Peer Fellow for the Columbia University Writing Center. Her work has appeared in the *Financial Times, Columbia Daily Spectator*, and various local newspapers.
=============================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================

**[Acknowledgements]{.underline}**
==================================

*She is a friend of my mind. She gather me, man. The pieces I am, she
gather them and give them back to me in all the right order. It\'s good,
you know, when you got a woman who is a friend of your mind.*

*---Beloved,* Toni Morrison

A lot of lovely people gathered me together so that I could write "St.
Alban" and submit it as my undergraduate thesis. First of all, I am so
glad that I can finally thank my amazing thesis adviser, Prof. Kaiama L.
Glover, in writing. Prof. Glover has been so supportive and wonderfully
excited about my thesis, even when I switched from doing a research
project to "St. Alban" two months before the deadline. It's been an
absolute joy working with her. She's done a great job of guiding my
intellectual growth while I write my afterword and also reigning me in
when I needed it (because I can be like a child in a candy store when it
comes to exploring ideas). I am indebted to Prof. Alex Gil, who was kind
enough to build this website in a short space of time. I met both Prof.
Glover and Prof. Gil as a student for their "The Caribbean Digital"
class.

I am also grateful for my Director of Undergraduate Studies, Prof.
Tommaso Manfredini, who has also been very supportive of my work and has
given me invaluable precise feedback for my afterword. Prof. Brent
Edwards was also very helpful and attentive when I approached him for my
research project. Prof. Elleza Kelley's class, "Counterarchives:
Contemporary Black Historical Fiction," was instrumental for my
afterword. I greatly appreciate the way that Prof. Kelley took the time
to read "St. Alban" and give me thoughtful feedback for my thesis.

In terms of writing the story, I would like to give a big thank you to
Tejan Waszak, my colleague at the Columbia University Writing Center who
helped me translate dialogue into Jamaican Patwa. Patwa is a crucial
part of the lifeblood of this story and the characters, so "St. Alban"
would not be possible without Tejan's help. Next, I would like to thank
Prof. Frances Negr√≥n-Muntaner. Her class "Caribbean Diaspora
Literature," which I took in my freshman year, was my introduction to
Caribbean studies and shaped my undergrad trajectory. I wrote my first
ever short story for the final project of that class. Coming full
circle, I completed writing "St. Alban" as a final project for the
second class I took with her, "Revolution In/On the Caribbean," in my
senior year.

"St. Alban" feels like a consolidation of everything I have learnt in
Caribbean studies in the last four years, so I would also like to thank
two scholars who have strongly influenced my thinking about the
Caribbean. Prof. Natasha Lightfoot's class "The Modern Caribbean" was
essentially the informational foundation of my critique of colonialism
in the region and the neo-colonialism of the parasitic tourism industry.
I am indebted to Prof. Lightfoot's scholarship and now work as her
research assistant. The second scholar is Prof. David Scott, editor of
*Small Axe*, where I work as an editorial assistant. I have been
extremely fortunate to work closely with Prof. Scott and pick his brain
since I joined the *Small Axe* editorial team as a little sophomore
student (in fact, it was through Prof. Negr√≥n-Muntaner that I landed
that role). Working at *Small Axe* and my conversations with Prof. Scott
in his Schermerhorn office has been a highlight of my undergraduate
career.

Academia aside, I would now like to thank some people who are very dear
to me in my personal life. My lover dee(dee) Redd, a fellow writer and
Aquarian, truly held me down and encouraged me as I struggled to finish
writing "St. Alban." With patience and care, they helped me to think
through the right language to use in certain passages (I also would not
have taken Prof. Kelley's class if it was not for dee's recommendation).
Ezequiel Gonz√°lez, a trusted friend who I frequently workshop writing
with, was the first person to read the story in full and give me
feedback. Ezequiel was the person who introduced me to Vanessa
Agard-Jones' "What the Sands Remember," a pivotal text for "St. Alban,"
and the first person to suggest that I expand the story into a novel.
Last and certainly not least is my Mum. I owe everything to her, but
especially my writing because she is the one who has championed my
creative work the most (actually, she helped me come up with the
adjective Albanese which was a godsend because Albanian is already
taken). dee, Ezequiel and my Mum are three people who have nurtured my
growth as a writer.

[^1]: From *A Small Place* by Jamaica Kincaid. See appendix.

[^2]: From *Pity for Poor Africans* by William Cowper (Ullathorne). See
    appendix.
